Okay, cool. And
We'll share all of Mike's info at the end, because I'm sure you guys are gonna wanna follow up with him.
This is an awesome workshop. So what I've told them, Mike, is that this is one of our Chicago founders favorite workshops.
They just started Growth Month. Which is like month 2. So everybody here is like deep in the weeds of iterating, experimenting, trying to sell, trying to grow.
This is the perfect time for this workshop. You guys are gonna lump this. Mike gives this every program pretty much and he's super generous for this time.
Feel free to, you like people to just kind of jump in with questions right Mike so they could raise their hand or unmute your up with that.
Yeah, yeah, just, I'm gonna share a deck and, but I'd rather than hear myself talk like just start yelling.
I might not see hands. I'd rather I've got like a little over an hour.
So I'd rather just be like just as helpful as humanly possible to you guys. So, yeah, I'm gonna cruise through kind of like principles for growth, especially when you're earlier on like, most of you here.
But please just, interrupt and we can kinda do QA throughout and it'll be super casual.
Amazing. Well, thank you so much for your time. Again, this is just awesome. I know everybody's been really appreciate it.
So I'll just hand it over to you. Mike.
Okay, cool. Is there Actually, why don't we just in the spirit of time, I usually ask kind of for intros on what everyone's doing.
But I'm a little bit strapped for time today. So maybe we just. Start and then when you guys start interrupting me.
You just tell me quickly what you do. And give me like, you know, the 30 second pitch to give me some context, so that can be more helpful and questions you have.
Does that work for everyone?
Yeah, they should have like a 1-liner they can just r off when they ask a question.
So. We'll do that.
Okay, awesome. I'm excited. Alright, give me a to share my screen. Okay.
Alright, cool. Everyone got my screen? Full, screen, building a GRIFF machine slide.
Yeah, looks great.
Okay, awesome. Remember, just start, start yelling and, and I'll stop.
Okay, cool. So yeah, this is a presentation. I actually built it, a couple of years ago, but it was meant to be like pretty, timeless advice.
So I think a lot of it is still pretty applicable. Little bit about me. So I've been scaling 7 and 8 figure startups for like 13 years now.
So I spent most of my career doing this in house, working my way up, really series A to post series C venture back companies.
So kind of ended as a full time exact in December of 2021 i helped this food marketplace startup go from 7 figs to about 60 million in rep in a little over 5 years and I ended with their CMO but a few 100 employees and that was kind of one of the later stage experiences I had and I did a lot of earlier stage stuff too.
And so I've been getting requests to like advise and so basically at the end of 2021 I decided hey like maybe I'll just you know do this thing I've always done which is you know helping grow 7 and 8 figure startups really at the intersection of marketing and product.
So, you know, keeping stop or startup super simple. I think they tend to grow 3 ways, sales marketing and product.
So I've spent most of my career at the intersection of marketing and product to help them grow.
So yeah, at the end of 2021, January, 2022, I lost my own gross studio.
It's called moon water. You guys can check it out if you're interested. Just moon water dot studio.
So I do the same work I've always done. I've worked with a small subset of startups and I help them grow more predictably, repeatedly and defensively.
More recently earlier this year I launched a second brand. It's called light bulb. That run and we we tend to do more tactical work for startups.
So things like Metaads, Google Ads, enhanced conversion tracking, stuff like that. So yeah, moon waters like startup, fractional operator and advisory, kind of higher level stuff.
And then light bulb is more, execution oriented. So been doing it for a while since I started mean water I've advised a small subset of companies that have raised about a quarter 1 billion dollars.
I work with a small subset of startups at once. Lots of advisors out there who work for like 10 or 15.
I work with 3 to 4 just trying to like work with 3 to 4 really interesting ones and kind of bleed quality.
Yeah, I teach about this stuff like here, over at Kellogg, and the 8 program.
I'm in the Midwest in Chicago. I'm actually heading over there later today. Okay, enough like about me.
The more important thing is I've been doing this for a while. I've made a ton of mistakes.
And the whole point of the stack is to hopefully like help you guys not make some of those mistakes. So that's kind of a quick intro on me.
I'm gonna talk through like, gosh, I don't even remember how many. There might be like 12 or 13 principles around growth.
Again, I tend to work with more post product market fit, probably a little later stage than, where some of you are at today.
But I've tried to adapt a lot of those learnings and advice around growth to like what were the most important things when I have done the earlier stage stuff that I somebody like told me, so I could avoid, you know, some heartache and certainly save some time and stuff like that.
So I'm gonna go through those now. Anyone have any questions before I start riffing on the principles for growth?
Okay, awesome. So 1st one, I love this quote. Growth is optional. So growing a startup.
Is really, really hard. It requires constant discipline. It's days are full of like just continuing to get to more lives, right?
I think one of the best things you can do culturally is figure out like how do you build a culture as a founder and for your early team to just like take bad news well.
And just keep going you know almost expect the bad news because even the best startups are pretty demoralizing.
But I think if you can do that, right, and if you can find a way to keep going and one of the best hacks to do that is just be solving a problem for, you know, an ICP that you're just like really excited about and think you can spend the next 10 years on.
If you can do that stuff, growth is optional. And so a big part of what I'm gonna teach you guys today is like growing a startup is really hard, but I actually think a roadmap is very straightforward and very simple and most startups just kind of over complicate itself.
Over complicated. And if you can be kind of brutally honest and, you know, you just have the right expectations about how hard it's gonna be.
I actually think like, yeah, the playbook is pretty straightforward. I'm gonna kinda hit on sort of the cornerstones of that playbook.
So yeah, 1st quote, I think this is coined by the coin by the head of growth over at Facebook in the early days. He's now the CMO.
But yeah, he just talks about how, growth is optional and really the meeting there is it's really up to you guys right whether your pre your post product market fit finding product market fit and then scaling.
I think it's just up to you and and whether you have a product market fit and then scaling.
I think it's just up to you and whether you have the discipline to stay focused and be really honest about progress or lack of progress and and what to do next and ultimately just just to keep going.
So there's lots of people in startups who talk about. Speed and speed really matters, because that's how you learn and we're going to get to that.
But I think actually what's even more important than speed is stamina. And we're going to get to that. But I think actually what's even more important than speed is stamina.
There's this really cool. And I think actually what's even more important than speed is stamina.
There's just really cool Ryan holiday quote that it's not who is a really cool Ryan holiday quote that it's not who is the fastest it too slows down the least and I think that's very true true for startups there's too many startups that kind of fizzle out because they burn out they go too hard when in reality like you know you know you make it lucky
you may be able to exit your startup in a few years, but you know, 9 times out of 10, that's not the case.
And you should get ready for the marathon over the spread. Okay, principle number 2.
Startups don't take off. Founders make them take off. So this is the Paul Graham quote.
Everyone's out West, so I'm sure you're familiar with YC and Paul Graham.
There's also kind of as an aside here that there's so many people talking about startups, right?
And what you should do, including me, right? Like you should, you should sort of take my advice, right?
Like you should you should sort of take my advice maybe with a grain of salt right like corroborate it with other people and I think one of the best things like early teams can do is just like go heads down on making their startup take off and like really just like ignoring the internet, ignoring other people, ignoring LinkedIn, ignoring Twitter.
And this is one of my favorite lessons, one of my favorite quotes, the whole idea of startups, they don't take off founders, make them take off.
So if you look at all of these awesome startups on the left hand side, they all went through sort of this this illustration that you see on the right called the process.
And basically the takeaway here is like, you know, you hear the stories, you see the valuations of the Instagram, of interest, the Airbnb's of the world.
But if you really peel back the layers like on how they got started, there was a lot of willing things into existence and in the early days like one of my favorite.
Ben Silverman stories of Pinterest was like in the early days, used to go into, Apple stores and he would switch the Safari browser home screen to Pinterest and people would come in and they would like think about buying a MacBook and they would like go and pull it up and they would see Pinterest and you know they would just kind of start tinkering because it was right there and then like he would go
over and he would do like user interviews, right? Or Airbnb, there's like the famous story of how those guys almost like ran out of money in the early days because you know, sounds so obvious now like you should write your place out but when they started, basically the common response was like, you want me to go stay with someone else in New York City?
No thanks. I don't want to get murdered. And so they just, We're grinding and they ended up, they were designers.
And I forget which election it was, Obama and somebody else, but they decided that they were gonna like make Weeies boxes with both presidential candidates on it.
And so it had nothing to do with their startup, but they banked like 60 or 80 grand.
I don't remember what it was to just kind of put some money in the bank and keep going.
And there's all these amazing examples of These amazing startups who did things that didn't scale in the early days and you know where the founders really like took it upon themselves to will things into existence so you know don't you know don't don't make a mistake of thinking that like they didn't go through the tomorrowization and the grind and the hard times it's there for every startup even the
most successful ones and so yeah just build habits to you know, founders make things take off themselves and I said, like I said, like instilling that culture, with your team.
Of course you're gonna get to this place where like you can't just do things that don't scale all the time.
But, but, Airbnb is another great example of this with like, you know, the whole idea to overcome that objection that I just kind of like, sokingly talked about, right?
Like people not wanting to stay with someone else in New York City. I was only like half joking.
I mean that was largely consumer insight that they got. And so one of the insights that they had was like we need to take really beautiful photos of these places in order to overcome this objection, right?
This consumer objection. And so the founders, and Joe, they were designed people, they had like great taste, great eye.
They just went in and started shooting photography for like their earliest customers in New York City so the places look beautiful right like if they started and said like we're never gonna build a billion dollar company by going into you know people's apartments in New York City just so we can get like the 1st 20 listings on Airbnb to look beautiful and incredible.
They might have never actually like gotten anywhere with B+B. And so it's really important to kind of balance this idea of like, yes, you want to.
Figure out scalable activities. But I think one of the best things you can do early on this idea of like, yes, you want to figure out scalable activities.
But I think one of the best things you can do early on is like cultivate this in your DNA, where you're doing things that don't scale.
And ultimately the reason that works so well is because it forces you to talk to customers. And you know, there's few better activities in the early days and constantly talking to customers and letting that inform.
But you do next.
So principle number 3. This is sustainable growth means mastering scale and unit economics. So this is a little bit more obvious now.
Given like the macro environment and you know just how funding is softer and it's harder than it was a few years ago.
But we're gonna continue to go through cycles and, you know, economy is gonna like pop off again and Raising venture is gonna be easier and you know, I don't know if that'll be in 2 years or 4 years, but it's gonna happen.
We just continue to go through these cycles. I think one of the important things to not forget when money is easier and you know things are going really well is that like to build an incredible startup like there's this product market fit definition that's like build something people want.
Actually think a much more accurate one is build something people need. You want to build something that's not just a nice to have, you want something that's going to solve like a morphine problem, but even beyond building something that people need, there's this whole second half of it that's like build something people need.
That they're also willing to pay for, right? In a way that's profitable for your startup.
And it's easy to lose sight, especially in the early days. Like you could throw up some, you know, Google ads or whatever and get some quick users and stuff like that.
But one of the things to just be really mindful of is like can we do this profitably? And you know, maybe, some of you post text stars want to raise a lot of venture, in which case you'll kind of lean on the gross side of the spectrum, but I still think you need to be mindful of unit economics.
And maybe some of you, you know, there's always people who go through tech stars and kind of are like, it's like a 1 and done raise or maybe they're gonna raise one more small round and you're just really interested in profitability.
Both sides of this equation are really important. And when you find marketing and sales and product levers to grow, you can't just think about one or the other, right?
One without the other isn't good enough. So channels that could you lots of customers with the unit economics though make sense and then other channels that have wonderful unit economics but no scale, they don't really work, right?
So you're on the hunt to figure out both. Sounds obvious. A lot of this advice is obvious, but when you're in it, it's really hard to, you know, it's really easy to lose sight of a big picture around this stuff.
One of my favorite books is this book called Traction, when it comes to figuring out like, how do you find channels with growth and good unit economics.
They have some really cool frameworks in it. And yeah, I will share the stack with everyone after so you guys can just like click up the links directly.
There's a link to the traction book, but, really simple framework for how do you start to finish tasks to find, you know, marketing channels and other types of levers that have scale and good unit economics, but both really matter.
Okay, cool. So this is one of my favorite graphs in startups. So the most important formula for growth.
Is this whole idea of new customers plus reactivated customers plus retain customers? So there's a really cool venture fund out there called Social Capital.
It was started by Glad you probably know him. He's on the all in podcast.
He started the growth team at Facebook made a bunch of money own part of the Golden State Warriors at one time.
I think he sold it. But he started this venture fund called Social Capital. And I think it's, mostly just him now.
It used to be like a bigger team. I think it's mostly just him, but one of the really cool things they did, and I would recommend everyone Google, is if you just Google like social capital.
Diligence framework. They basically like open source, a lot of how they do diligence and how they decide to fund companies.
And they were kind of funding all types of companies at the time. So whether you're a consumer company, whether you're SAS, Marketplace, whatever.
They kind of looked at them all and One of my favorite articles is, it's like a 5 part sort of medium.
Series where they talk about like the mathematical side of how they do diligence right and one of the things that's so cool about that is like this is one of the most rigorous funds in the world and they're telling you how they like measure startups to figure out like if it's a very high quality business, right?
And so even if you're not raising money, you can go take those frameworks and you know, you can measure your startup in that light and figure out how good you you are.
Of course there's this whole side of diligence that isn't as numerical and measurable, right?
Like founder attributes, founder market fit, stuff like that. But for like the mathematical side of quantifying growth and that side of village and state they kind of give it all the way.
And the 1st 2 The 1st 2 like sort of essays in this 5 part series talk about this whole idea of.
The ways you grow active customers. And I believe the 1st one talks about it in the context of consumer startups.
And the second one talks about it in the context of SAS startups. So, you know, that should cover off on a fair amount of you.
But go take a look at it because they're big point is it's really easy for a startup to show top line growth right so let's say you want to show like top line revenue, right?
So let's say you want to share like top line revenue growth or top line customer growth. Everyone's seen the classic sort of like hockey stick chart there, right?
And what these guys kind of called out was the whole idea of like, Hey, okay, let's, keep things super simple per se.
Let's, talk about like a consumer startup where you have, you know, your active customers are either new, the reactivated, they're retained.
Again, take a look at the article, the SASs calculation is a little bit more complex because you have.
You know, there's a few more inputs to the calculation, but it's the same idea.
And basically what they talk about is like, okay, let's say, we're in April right now, right?
So let's say we're talking about active customers. A new customer is one who comes in for the 1st time in April, right?
They use the product for the 1st time in April. A reactivated customer is one who uses it in April, They did not use it in March, but they used it in some in some preceding period before March, right?
So there was like this gap in their usage. And then there's retained. Also active in April and they were active in the immediate preceding month, which happens to be March, right?
So those are 3 mutually exclusive types of customers and they sum to your total actives. And the big point of this article was you can basically show, you know, You can show this up into the right sort of chart, right?
Like this is an actual company I worked on that had a compound monthly growth rate of total customers of about 10% month over month.
Not bad. But wait, you peel back the layers, sorry, this is 2 companies that were both growing at 10% month over month top line.
When you peel back the layers and you figure out how Are they growing? The company on the left was growing predominantly because of new customers and they were churning a lot of those customers.
So they still had this monthly growth rate that was 10% month over month. But new was holding it up, right?
New in this equation of act is equal new plus reactivated plus retain was driving it. Whereas this other company on the right, they weren't as good at customer acquisition yet, but they were retaining incredibly well.
And so the social capital article talks about this idea of a quick ratio, which basically says for every customer you're gaining, how many are your So in other words, it's not just about top line growth.
2 companies can have the exact same top line growth, but they can have a very different what they call a quick ratio.
So for example, this consumer company on the left for every 1.1 customers it was gaining, it was losing one, right?
So it was almost losing as many customers as they were gaining. Whereas the company on the right for every 1.7 customers they were dating they were losing about one.
So 1.1 versus 1.7 games to one loss might not seem like a Lapa for a consumer company that's massive.
So the second article talks about this for SAS companies, the quick ratio sort of benchmarks are different.
You want to be much higher than, you know, one and a half to 2. But take a look at these articles like the, it's okay if like the map is a little bit fuzzy right now, but the whole idea is like you can fake growth, right?
You can fake, but you can't take healthy growth. And the way that you figure out if your growth is healthy or not is are you just growing by acquiring new users or you also growing by retaining and reactivating old ones?
So you talk about this, I'm gonna kinda fly through it, but, that, whole calculation of, you know, for every customer you're gaining, how many you're losing, really keeps you honest on your top line growth.
It's called the Quick Ratio. They talk about an article. It's 1 of my favorite calculations to figure out if you have product market fit, right?
If you're growing customer acquisition, but you're not retaining, you probably don't have product market fit.
That's not bad, right? Like if you're growing customers, clearly something you're doing is resonating, right?
People are coming into a landing page, they're trying your product, they're just not sticking around.
So the message is working. The product just hasn't delivered on the promise yet. So don't get discouraged if you're growing largely off of new.
It's just like be a reality check for what your priority should be. You shouldn't continue to spend money or even focus that much on organic customer acquisition until you talk to users and you kind of fix what's wrong with the wiki product and then you know get enough users to come in.
To validate that you fix that and as you know, retention shows that you have fixed that, you can start to turn on the new customer acquisitions, pick it again.
Okay, cool. So that was a little bit about like, how I think about growth in the context of product with new reactivated and.
Retained. But another thing I do is, marketing related growth. So I think the biggest.
Message around marketing early on for companies is Marketing's purpose pre and post product market fit, they're, they're very different.
And It's really tempting if you figure out a customer acquisition channel that's working for your business.
It's really tempting to just go harder on it. But one of the big questions I have is, are you ready to go harder on it?
And so one of the reasons I love the quick ratio and the social capital analysis that I just alluded to is because it's it's it's you know there's lots of people out there who have definitions of product market fit.
You know surveys all this stuff. I think the way to be brutally honest about if you have it is the quick ratio calculation that I just showed you.
So let's assume that the quick ratio isn't strong, right? You're growing, but you're not retaining a lot of these people, your pre product market fit.
The whole goal of marketing then is you just want to bring in enough customers. So as you're iterating on the product to improve retention, you're constantly getting feedback to figure out if you're better, right?
But you certainly don't want to be spending tens of thousands of dollars on customer acquisition yet, right?
Maybe you spend a thousand bucks one month because you want to bring, you know, 50 users in, to figure out if some of these changes you made to your product based on talking to users are helping them retain.
That's totally fine. But that's the use case for marketing, right? When your post product market fit, you've validated that you build something people need, evidenced by the quick ratio, right?
You're retaining users, right? And you're very much ready for growth. Then marketing purposes scaling, right?
And so that goes back to the whole sort of, inside it had a few slides ago on the purpose of, you know, really good growth is scale and unit economics, then you can go hunting for those levers and tactics.
And I ask a question, Mike.
Of course.
We're building a regenerative marketplace. We've learned that regenerative is not necessarily what we leave with for the customer.
So we're in the super early phase. We're iterating, we're looking for our 1st 10 customers, but because it's travel, I was curious, it's not like a software you ideally use month after month.
Most people, they travel once a year if we're lucky. How, how do you measure it in that case?
So can you talk to me a little bit more about what regenerative means in this context?
Interesting.
In this context I think it what we've learned it doesn't matter as much for us it means that you leave the places better than you find them and the way we do it is we curate suppliers, hotels, activities, all kinds of different immersive off the meeting path things that already do all the work so that our guests can enjoy themselves and have a deeper more actually immersed experience.
And the regenerative part we've learned goes on the back end now, because that's not necessarily what people look for when they go looking for the next vacation.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
With piloting in the Hawaii. So even more so a case where people, some people go to Hawaii every year, most people probably don't.
So I think getting customers to come back to us until we are global is probably hard.
Well, a few a few ideas. Lisa, so the 1st thing I would say is, So what do you guys leading with if you're not leading with regenerative now?
What are you leaning with as like sort of the value? Okay, okay.
Immersive. Immersive off the beaten path experiences and the product we're testing out right now on top of the.
Marketplace that we have in the back end is the customized local experts itineraries that you get from real humans in the real places who understand like the local experience rather than AI generated itineraries that are just the same.
Cool, cool. So a couple of thoughts. So one, yeah, like you, in terms of, measuring if your per your post product market fit, I mean, the 1st thing I would say is like your pre customers is that right?
Oh yeah, yeah, we're definitely pre. I'm just curious about what if you measure it in the same way when it's not something that is easily repeatable like a software for example.
Yeah, totally, totally makes sense. Yeah, so the answer is no, right? Like if you're, if you were building like software.
For, you know, certain HR activities, like people aren't gonna use those at the same frequency that they use social apps, right?
Sure. Yeah.
Just like they're not gonna use them at the same frequency as yours. So the 1st answer is yeah, like you wanna figure out like what is sort of the goal?
Like what are you running towards? Is it twice a year? Is it 3 times a year? I might also think about, I like the idea that you're only in like you're focused on Hawaii.
I would think because you want to figure out one or 2 markets, bleed quality, really figure out the playbook before you scale.
Yeah.
Don't want to spray too early. One thing you might think about is what are some of these places that might not be Hawaii.
Where people do come back at a more regular cadence, right? And so if it's like off the beaten path.
Sort of travel experiences, you know, I'm thinking about like people who do this might be like a terrible example, but like, you know, people who do like Iron Man's, right?
Yeah.
Like they tend to be in that some of them, but like, you know, people who do like Iron Man's, right? Like they tend to be in that some of them tend to be in the same spot, right?
And they might continue to do them. I am, might be a bad example. My point is, there's probably these like extreme sort of events, that are a little bit indicative of like someone's adventurous they like off the beaten travel and they also might come back multiple times.
Yeah.
Like I know people who hike the Grand Canyon every year. You know, it's like sort of this thing that they do.
So one piece of advice is like try to figure out are there like events or even places that are kind of a leading indicator that, sorry, I'm gonna hit my.
Video here. Give me one second I froze.
Okay.
There was in a great position now.
Yeah, it could be, could be much worse, right? Alright.
Always.
Alright, one second.
Do you need to stop and re-share, Mike?
Oh yeah, let's give a chat.
In the meantime. Lisa and area you might want to explore is Mexico. I feel like people end up in the same area.
Year after year like I know a couple folks who end up in that pattern. But. They're interested in like different experiences each time and they don't necessarily go back to the same hotels.
So that might be a spot to start. Just 1st thing I've been to mind.
Yeah, I think Hawaii too, a lot of people come back here after year. I was just curious if it's a yearly rate.
To measure retained customers or is it more? I don't, I mean, yeah, I think I was just curious about that of like how long.
I think. Okay.
Is it like they come back in 2 years? Is that still a retained customer and how do you measure that now?
Oh, as soon as you have them.
So I think you gotta, you gotta work. You gotta work backwards a little bit. So, Like what I would say is like figure out like what unit economics do we think makes sense for your business, right?
And then like, and then you can kind of answer this question, do you need them to the annual customers or is every other year sufficient?
You know, I think you want to figure out a way to bake retention into your business just because going back to this sort of equation, there's kind of 3 types of customers.
Yeah.
So there's the new ones. There's the ones who come back, but they come back less frequency and the one that continues to, it's just much harder to grow if you can't pull on all of those.
Hmm.
Yeah.
So I would kind of think through like, you know, and I know it's like early, but like, how much are you thinking you're gonna make per customer and then figure out, okay, what sort of like the hopeful LTV of this customer and that would kind of tell you do you need them to come 2 or 3 or 4 times or maybe just once a year.
That would be like a good place to start, but I think like thinking through like how do you bake some retention in your model whether it's once a year or even You know, when you get into like once every other year, it does get hard.
Totally.
Just because you can't like count on retention for growth as much. But that might be an interesting insight for you to kind of like.
Yeah.
We can rework the business model. Like maybe there's some sort of angle or offer. To get people to figure out recurring revenue, right?
I could do, again, these could be terrible ideas, but like a community, for once people go like to kind of bond over these interesting travel experiences, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Everyone loves community.
That might be a garbage one, but. But the whole idea of like thinking through. It's okay if people don't use your product every day like the North Star is Did the unit economics make sense, right?
Like can I make enough off of a customer and get him to come back where there's this lifetime value that I can like use that money to have some profits and also go back and find more customers.
And if the answer is no, then I would kind of like rethink retention, but a hundred 50%, like there's plenty of great businesses that have people use a product, you know, 2, 3 times a year.
You don't need to be a social app where people, you know, looking for like everyday usage.
Yeah, does that fall under reactivated or retain then?
What's that? I'm overthinking this.
I think you could, no, so for you guys. No, I think I think to start how you should think about it is, yeah, how do we get people to come back and pay us again?
Okay.
Yeah.
But then I would say like in terms of reactivated, you figure out your definition. Of what is sort of the regular cadence right and so if it's annual if someone comes back annually they would be considered retained if they came back every other year I would consider them reactivated assuming annual was sort of where you were going.
Got it. Is that over? Yeah. That makes sense.
Thank you.
So yeah, start everyone's definition of like what's the regular cadence will be different.
Thanks so much.
So start with that and that sort of dictates. Okay, no problem. So yeah, pre and post product market fit.
Just really important to understand. You're at because it dictates your startup priority, right? Are you ready for scale?
Are you ready to test marketing in sales? Or you really need to focus on product and retention before you can scale.
It's thinking about marketing again, I, I would really study that book traction. I mentioned, a few slides ago, really simple frameworks for how do you start and finish tests to find marketing channels with scaling good you in economics but I'm a big framework person.
It's really easy to be busy in startups. And so I like to use frameworks kinda, distill down what's like noise, what's the small subset of things we need to really focus on and do well.
And so what of the classic ones I like for marketing is the whole idea of like all marketing is either awareness, consideration, or conversion, right?
So awareness is, you know, sort of top of funnel stuff. Prospects know who you are consideration is they not only know that you are they know your value right they know unique value proposition they know like why you are different than if you sat around the table of 10 other competitors and adjacent companies what's very unique and and different about tours.
And then obviously conversion, right? Once people know who you are, once they know your value, you need to play but to convert, retain them.
So in the earlier days, you can be focused on the lower funnel stop, right? Most of your marketing activities, assuming you're ready to scale, should be conversion focused.
And then as you scale and you start to like tap out some of those very direct response marketing efforts, they're gonna get harder, it's gonna get harder to make the unit economics of those make sense as you're getting more and more customers.
You wanna plant seeds further up the funnel, right? And so, you know, at the end of the day, you can't, you can't build a 20 million or 50 million dollar company just slinging paid ads. You need to go higher up the funnel.
You need to be more creative. You need to be different. But when it comes to just kind of like getting the plane off the ground, the sort of conversion focused, the marketing and advertising can really do the trick.
Okay, so I mentioned earlier. Keeping things super simple. There's 3 ways, a lot of your companies will grow marketing sales and product.
Like customer support. As well. There's this concept of growth team, which a fair amount of you may have heard of, especially if you come from larger companies, like a small concentrated sort of like special ops group.
That's like really responsible for growth. These could be helpful in companies that have like a hundred plus people.
But I really think like So a lot of what I'm talking about today is not just the hard skills for growth, it's the soft skills, right?
Some of that earlier stuff, willing things into existence. Finding ways to build a culture where people don't get demoralized.
Like these are less obvious things that help with growth, but the soft skills are just as important.
This is another one of those. So I don't like the idea of growth teams if a company has less than a hundred people, which is, you know, presumably where you're companies will be.
For a little while, I think of the whole company as the growth team. And like I said earlier, it's really easy to be busy in startups.
I think one of the most helpful things you can do is list out the departments, right? Or, you know, let's say you have 2 or 3 or 4 people right now and you just think through like what are the current levers for growth and is the whole team using their unique skill sets and previous experiences to solve these problems.
So one of the best things you can do culturally is not have growth, the marketing job or products job or sales jobs.
You want it to be everyone's job. And not only are you gonna like find both way faster that way, it's much better for your culture.
Teams are gonna get way less demoralized. I've advise a lot of companies where marketing sales or product one of the teams is kind of carrying a lot of the weight and they're a little bit resentful and it's just usually doesn't end well.
And so you really want to build a culture of, you know, whether your founder, whether you're a customer support person, whether your employee number one, everyone's job is growth, right?
Okay.
And we're just using our unique skill sets and experiences to get there. So, Cool.
So another one. For you guys, there's back to frameworks like there's 4 stages to growth and just like it's really important to understand if your pre your post product market fit for marketing purposes.
It's really important just to understand in general because it dictates how your team should spend time. So I think about the 4 stages of growth for a startup, this whole idea of making something people need or want and we'll pay for right as the 1st one.
That's how you get that's product market there. Once you get to that you can hypothesize models for growth.
Doesn't get. How do I keep talking this time? So we. Just don't waste time.
Sorry guys, one second.
Alright, cool. Mac.
Everyone got my screen again?
All good.
Yep.
Cool. This is a good lesson for startups, right? Everyone's got a plan to get punched in the face.
So I plan, I plan this, right? Anyway, so, so there's these 4 stages of growth and the reason they're important is because it dictates your priority.
So 1st one, getting to product market fit, making something enough people want to pay for. Once you get there, you've earned the right to hypothesize models for growth.
And so I'm gonna get in the next slide, some of my favorite models to use to figure out like what is your engine for growth.
When you're doing that, the whole idea is like you want to test ideas really quickly to kind of validate and figure out your growth model.
And then the last thing that you're going to want to do is as you're trying to figure out like your hypothesis models for growth, your testing ways.
You want to record learnings and the really important thing about recording learnings is like it's how you get this growth flywheel spinning and I'm gonna get I'm gonna come back to it in a second.
So most startups they try tons of stuff, but they don't actually like take enough time to think and record learning and like reflect on where they write or were they wrong and kind of let that inform what they do next.
Again, it's super easy to be busy in a startup. And one of the best things startups can do is like actually slow down to move faster.
So I'm gonna kind of kind of explain that but as it relates to stage 2 and the idea of hypothesizing models for growth.
When I send this deck out, here's sort of like 5 frameworks. When I think about all the startups, like since I started moon water, I've worked on maybe 13 or so.
How we've grown has, pretty much come back to leveraging one of these models or multiple of these models to like figure out what our growth engine was.
So the 1st one is sort of like the sort of like old school framework for growth. It's called funnels or a a RR.
Just stands for acquisition activation. Retention referral and revenue. So those are 5 levers for growth.
Acquisition is how do we get people to this thing that we built, right? These assets that we have, activation, how do we get them to do what we want?
And then retention, how do we get them to continue to do what we want? And then.
Also referral, how do you get people to have such like a great experience that they become the marketers for you?
And then the last one is revenue. So whether you're pre or post revenue, how do you get them to engage in, you know, some sort of monetization behavior.
Or if your post revenue how do you get them to engage in more of it so can everyone still hear me even when I'm like Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah, we can hear you, Mike.
Awesome. Awesome. So if I have to kind of keep fixing this, I'll, I'll just keep talking.
So the final framework, some people call it like startup metrics for pirates. And because a a RR.
Is it a that sounds like a pirate or? Okay, cool. Share screen.
Sweet. So, that's like an older school 1. One of the reasons I really like that, framework for growth is acquisition activation, retention referral revenue.
They hit on them, things every team can do, sales marketing and product. Cool. So a couple of other ones.
I won't. I won't spend too much time on this because I want to do a bunch of QA at the end.
Growth loops. This is sort of like a newer model. If any of you guys have heard of re forge and Brian Bell for, you've got some really interesting theories on how Okay, are a better way to grow them funnels.
There's this whole concept of product led growth, network effects. I'm sure you guys have heard of it.
Many of the biggest best companies, Facebook, LinkedIn, blah, blah, blah.
Basically the product gets better and better. The user experience, there's more incentive to use it.
Has more and more people join. Network effect products are incredible. But just because you don't have a network effects product.
Doesn't mean, that you don't have a good start up. So sort of like the holy grail for growth, but, I work on plenty of awesome companies that have grown through much more traditional.
Methods like, funnels and stuff like that. So take a look. At all of these and then I would say.
You guys can email me anytime, if you got questions on, you know, the different sort of models for growth or if there's other ones that you're interested in, you know, the different sort of models for growth or if there's other ones that you're interested in.
I'm happy to rip on that too. Alright, try to start video one more time.
Cool. Okay, only got a couple more and then we can do some QA. So, ICE is the best way to kind of build an executed growth roadmap.
So Let's say you guys are ready for growth, right? And you're trying to think through marketing sales product levers to scale.
Even if you're not there, right, if you're still pre product market fit and you're trying to figure out what you should do next to get to product market fit Keep it simple.
One of my favorite frameworks for prioritization is is ICE and so it's just an acronym for impact confidence and effort.
So basically when it comes to figuring out what your startup should do, right, again, super easy to be busy in a startup. Doesn't mean anything.
You want to be effective. Usually that means you should do less. So you need to figure out a really thoughtful way to prioritize and what you should say yes to and what you should say no to.
So basically what Ice means is, you know, let's say you guys are trying to get to product market fit.
You got some really good customer feedback. And you're trying to decide on like, you know, 5 product features to build.
When you're trying to figure out what we need to do first, st ask yourself these 3 questions.
So is feature one was successful, what's its impact? That's what the eye stands for, right?
What's it going to do for revenue? What's it going to do for retention? Whatever sort of the North Star is that you're you're gunning to solve in that specific context.
The next thing to ask is like What's our level of confidence that it's gonna work, right?
If something is really high impact, if it works, but you have like a really low confidence in it working, right?
There's not other adjacent companies in it working, right? There's not other adjacent companies or competitors, right?
There's not other adjacent companies or competitors who've done this and figured it out.
There's not sort of like secondary research that suggests it's a good idea, whatever. You don't have any like customer feedback that says it's a good idea.
It's probably not the 1st thing you're gonna do because even if the impact is high, your confidence is really well.
And then the last thing that that's most important in the earliest days of a startup is ease.
So let's say something's high impact and you have high confidence. The last question I ask is like what's it going to take to put this thing into the world right like if we're building a new product feature to help the, is it going to take one developer?
Is it going to take a desire developer? Do we not even need them? Right? Could be like a no code thing that a found a non technical founder could do.
You guys kind of get the point how many hours it's gonna take. But I see the really effective framework again, whether you're pre your post product market fit, figure out what's a small subset of stuff we really want to say yes to and what's the stuff we're going to pass on for now because we really just want to bleed quality and do the work of our lives on a few things, the things that matter
most. Cool, so principle number 12. Velocity is, it's, it's the number one input to find the fastest path.
So there's this flywheel to grow a startup. Okay. And it looks like I should really just put a flywheel illustration on the slide.
It would be way better. But I haven't yet. So, check out that 1st bullet.
The flywheel is this. So if you're trying to figure out ways to grow, you want to try lots of stuff, right?
You want to run tests, right? But then after you run those tests, the, sorry, the reason that you want to run those tests is because you want to get the learnings and The reason you want the learning is because the learnings lead to better tests.
And then the better test lead to higher success rates. And ultimately, you get to the fastest path growth.
So the whole reason that velocity matters is because the kick off this flywheel and do more stuff and get more learnings that lead to better tests and higher success rates, it all starts with speed, right?
And so it's really important to just kind of like, you know, when in doubt do. I think that startups they just they just have this like incredible bias for action.
Early on. It's something that can really help you get ahead, because basically you build learnings way faster than everybody else.
And that's really important. I'm gonna kill my video for the rest of the presentation and see if it helps at all.
I'll turn it back on. We do QA. I'm almost done here.
Okay, cool. Principal number 13. Outside of moving very quickly to really kick off that growth bywheel and get more learnings to.
You know, have more, you know, stack more wins and find the fast path and growth. The other thing that's really important that I find a lot of early stage startups fall down and is this whole idea like I told you earlier it's really important to capture learning so I always tell startups like move as fast as you can so long as you stay in control.
I come in and advise a lot of startups who are doing lots of stuff. And you know, let's say, let's say the startup is just post product market fit.
They're trying to scale, they're testing a new customer acquisition strategy on YouTube.
And I come in and they say, oh, you 2 doesn't work for a business. And I say, okay, like, that's fine.
Most things you try won't work for your startup. That's, why you need to try a lot of stuff.
But they're set to feel back layers and ask them about like, okay, like talk to me about the test design, right?
Like how you ran like, YouTube customer acquisition, right? Like what was the high hypothesis?
What did you guys actually we do, you know, what were the results? What did you learn?
And I start to ask these questions and I realize like, you Sometimes there's not good answers, right?
Like maybe we ran a test, maybe the outcomes weren't really good, but no one actually like recorded the outcomes, right?
No one actually like went back and said, okay, we have this hypothesis of why YouTube could be good for our business.
It wasn't and let's ask ourselves why and extract some sort of learning, right? Maybe it wasn't good because like you didn't actually like architect the campaign in a thoughtful way.
Maybe even follow best practices or maybe you did all that and it still wasn't good in which case you should move on.
But the reason that learning is really important is because most of the things you try startup are going to fail.
And so in order to not have that failure be in vain, you want to say like, okay, what do we learn from this?
Let's log it in like a learnings log and let's commit it to memory. So when we prioritize, right, like when we ruthlessly prioritize everything else that we're doing every week, we can constantly cite these learnings to to prioritize better, right?
And so the best thing you can do is run a test that's going to help you get to product market fit because it's helping you solve a retention problem or it's going to help you scale because your post product market fit the best thing that can happen is it works but 9 times out of 10 even for great companies it's not gonna work so like don't have those other 10 experiments be in vain learn something
from them and commit that stuff to memory socialize it with the team and constantly come back to it to inform.
What you do next?
Alright, cool. I think it just got 2 more. So when you do find stuff that works, so the whole point of like even for great teams that execute really quickly, they capture learnings, most tests will fail.
When you do science find stuff that works, double down on it. So another kind of mistake I see is, you know, I come into a startup and you know, let's say, 80% of their growth is coming from one or 2 channels.
So you definitely want to have a chip on your shoulder and say, hey, this, you know, these one or 2 channels, they're gonna saturate, they're gonna go away.
We're not gonna be able to rely on them forever. So let's use a small subset over time to plant new seeds, right?
So when the sink does saturate, we're not totally burned. But make no mistake, you should still spend the majority of your time making that thing work as well as possible for as long as possible.
And that all comes back to like, it's just very hard to find stuff that works. So once a while, I'll come into companies that, that are growing at a really nice clip and there's 2 or 3 channels that are doing it and instead of doing the work of their lives on those 2 to 3 channels, they're like, oh, we can replicate the success in 2 to 3 others.
That that very rarely happens. So it's not to say that you shouldn't plant seeds in the other 2 to 3.
Again, it's really important to find continuous ways to grow as you know markets get competitive you know tactics channel saturate and stuff like that but it should be a small subset of your time they hard to find channels tactics and levers that work so whether they're products sales or marketing when you do just go as hard as human.
Milk them for all their work. And the last thing that I have to say to everyone before I open up to Q&A is, Yeah, make time to play offense.
So especially in the early days. You're gonna scramble a lot, right? Like there's just so much to do in your startup to kind of get things off the ground and to show a little bit of traction.
But like don't conflate busy and effective. And so I thought a lot about this because I've never met a startup.
You know, in my opinion, again, you guys should corroborate this stuff, figure out figure out who you want to believe.
Don't talk to too many people, avoid most of the internet, but in my experience, I've never met a startup that, couldn't benefit from doing less.
And the reason that I say that is because ultimately what happens when you do too much is you end up half asking a lot of projects, right?
And to really make a startup work, you need to do the work your life on a few things that really matter.
And, you know, I find that, you know, if you're not making time as a team that really matter.
And you know, I find that, you know, if you're not making time as a team, whether it's just you, whether you have a co-founder or whether you have a small team.
Be on you. If you're not making time to like come up for for air and think and not just like react and do stuff.
You're not going to make the most thoughtful decisions. You're not going to like actually reflect on all of these things that have happened and what it means for sort of the next step of your business.
A really windy road. Even for the most successful ones. And so it's really important to just build this culture.
You know, Take a step back, make time to think because ultimately it's how you play the most offense.
And by the way, if you build a culture like this, really great, 18 employees, they're, starting for it because a lot of startups are just like swallowed in busyness and not only does it hurt productivity, it hurts morale and it's it's it's sort of a hack to build a really incredible team because it's really hard to do this.
And most startups haven't figured it out. So anyway, that's my presentation. I'm going to try to hit video again and do some Q&A.
But yeah, you guys can, email me anytime at mic@movewater.studio. If you have questions on the stack once I share it out.
Studio if you have questions on the stack once I share it out or just like general questions as you guys are scaling.
And then with the tech stars crew. To, on this point, I've been doing in Chicago for, many years now.
So, awesome. To be doing it out West as well. And, yeah, thanks for time.
Thanks so much, Mike. Okay. So we have. How long you're leaving a set 11 PST?
I can hate for like 15min if people are.
Awesome. Okay, who would like to ask some questions? This is a great opportunity.
Anita. And it doesn't have to be related to the deck. Like if there's anything remotely related to growth that I think I might be able to be helpful on, feel free.
Yeah, where are you guys getting stuck? What are you working on? In terms of growth right now, how can Mike help?
Yeah, Ali.
Sorry if you guys hear my little guy too. He's like having a day crying in the other room.
So.
No, the AirPods are great at canceling, but. Even if dinner it's fine.
Cool.
Ally?
Mike, thank you so much for the presentation. It was awesome, very, very awesome. I'm Ali, a, from aware and we're building, mental illness platform is a wearable device coupled with an app, we're building a mental wellness platform is a wearable device coupled with an app to help people monitor their, mental wellness platform is a wearable device coupled with an app to help people monitor their, emotional state and take action about
it. And we're very we're pre product so it's very early on this question is a little bit more just to educate my mind towards the future.
We want to be we are we are the Europe, they are ringing for mental illness. And as we are exploring more, what Ora and other variables do, network effects are amazing.
So people these products to each other. And you actually, if you Google or a ring, you know, if you Google stress, sleep and a lot of the things that Aura promotes.
They don't even show up, you know, on your Google search. Like they do Instagram. And network effects.
How do you get to that level? I mean, what what are in your experience steps? To get to the point where you actually have network effects to that.
Extent.
Yeah, great question and nice to meet you. The 1st thing I would say is it's like the holy grail, right?
Like for growth, like everyone is sort of wanting to figure it out. What are the best things you can do is just kind of steady history of like adjacent companies or maybe direct competitors who figured it out.
So one of these companies I advised, like a year and a half ago, this company called Hallow.
And pretty interesting products is it's basically like calm for Catholics so they built an app to you know basically do meditation prayer stuff like that specifically for Catholics and they kind of like capitalize this idea of like building tech for religious purposes is pretty taboo.
Most of the stuff out there is pretty shitty. They built this like really nice app, great user experience and it really blew up.
They raised like a hundred 1 million bucks and they had they ran Super Bowl ad this past year and one of the coolest projects I did with those guys that I think was most helpful was We, we realize that one of the most amazing adjacent companies to kind of talk about was Shopify.
So Shopify had nothing to do with meditation. It had nothing nothing to do with religion. I won't get into like exactly why we identified it as this like interesting consumer company that had a lot of parallel stuff, but one of the best projects I ever did from is that I spent 20h literally going through and just like combing through the internet to timeline Shopify's growth and try to figure out like what features or
what sort of levers led to growth. So we looked all the way back to I think, 2,013.
So we looked at 2,013 through like this was in 22 when we did it and it spent like 20h and you know we came up with like 40 things that happened on this timeline right based on what was publicly available about Shopify.
And we went through it and we 1st asked like, is this credible? Do we actually think that this like, you know, and a lot of their growth was public.
So we were able to kind of timeline this stuff to their actual group. And we went through and we said like, do we think the source is credible?
Do we think it's legit? And then the next question we asked is like, is it applicable to how?
Right. And then there was all this stuff that came up where we had to really clean it up, right?
Like something that worked in 2,014. Where it wasn't gonna work in 2022 but this was a super useful exercise for us to kind of figure out like.
This company that we're aspiring to be like for various reasons. Here's how they've achieved network effects, right?
And in your case, and let's just like build out the 50 things that happened in the last 5 or 7 years and like ask if it's still relevant, ask if it's relevant to us.
And yeah, I think 1 1 mistake that I see started to make and when I say it's the stars, make just to be clear, I've made all these mistakes like being in startups.
You're doing this new thing, right? Like it's inherently like innovative, maybe kind of cutting edge and you sometimes we like forget that like a lot of people have all of these problems and you think because this thing is new that there might not be this comp and in my experience 90 to 95% of the time like unless you're building.
You know, rockets that you're trying to send to Mars or, you know, something like that.
Like there's usually some sort of interesting comp out there and like interesting company you can study. And I'm talking about how we study Shopify to figure out how can we be more like them.
You can also like steady, you know, let's say like Aura was an adjacent company that made like, sounds like they're a great company, but let's say they made this detrimental mistake.
You can also study them to like figure out how you don't repeat those same mistakes, right? So yeah, I think like setting like figure out not just competitors and sometimes it's better for adjacent companies.
It's like, I wanna say Jason, it's like there's something about them that's really interesting, but they're not a direct competitor.
You think there's like these parallel other parallels? I like to study those because you tend to get ideas out your industry that competitors might have already done.
But that's a really good exercise for, figuring it out. Like don't, try to reinvent the wheel.
Like there's plenty of apps that have figured out network effects that are, you know, remotely related to what you're doing.
So I would, I would start with studying them.
Thank you so much.
No problem. And you guys just fire away.
I didn't want to jump the queue, but I'll I'll keep it brief.
Yeah, Mark.
So, here from exhaust. Exhaust we're B to C we are effectively a fancy finance app.
So what that means is basically an amalgamation of Robin Hood and draftings. So taking kind of at moments of betting, alternative asset, things like that.
Hmm.
You really have my interest with the loops versus funnels? And I'm curious, yeah, this double click on that more so because objects we wanna do, we wanna retain customers, repeated daily use, things like that.
So curious where the actual loop comes in. Is that like a spin? Is that more around the app mechanics like where's like the biggest or the ideal way to create that loop is yeah I guess through span is it through more of the kind of user interactions.
Yeah, so there's try to share my screen again. Cool. You guessing Google on my screen?
Yep. Thanks. Thanks.
Mouth, awesome hat by the way. I would Google, Google Brian Belfor.
Growth loops. This would be a good one and he kind of talks about it.
Another thing to maybe Google is, Brian Belfor and like types of growth loops because to your point there's a few there's a few different kinds like some are paid, some are non paid, but if you just kind of Google around, I think like if you're thinking about the Robin Hood of the world, again, to the advice I just kind of gave, like studying like they have surely figured out
a loop, right? Or draft kings or whoever. Go study their loops. I think like there's there's paid loops which basically just means like, paid loops aren't as effective as organic ones and I think for a very social experience like yours like you want to be leaning into this idea of organic loop so if you just kind of like yeah you just Google Brian Bell for growth
loops like he's gonna break down like a few different types he kind of like coined the term, has some really good ones, but I would also study like Robin Hood and draft kings.
It's amazing what you can find out there like people writing essays about these companies, to, figure it out.
But the whole idea of loops versus funnels, to, figure it out. But the whole idea of loops versus funnels is like, It's kind of like, it's a little bit like the referral ever in a funnel.
Like, how do you get the user to become the marketer for you? Right. You the marketing yourself. That's really the whole idea of a loop.
So yeah, leaning into, you know, if you're sort of a hybrid of finance app and a betting app, how did they do it and figure out like how that might be applicable to you.
And by the way, don't just copy verbatim like sometimes figuring out how they did it, can also like inspire new ideas, right?
Like whenever I go and study competitors, which I think is an underutilized tactic, I always say we're doing this for inspiration versus prescription, right?
Like we're not going to just run the same thing. But if they've run things that have crushed, surely we want to know about them and ask ourselves how applicable is it to our business if we don't have to know about them and ask ourselves how applicable is it to our business if we don't have to reinvent the wheel let's not but maybe it also just inspires this sort of like idea where we kind of build on
that and we do it better.
No problem. No problem.
Awesome. Thanks so much, Mike. Really appreciate that. Thank you.
No.
Hi Mike, 1st thank you very much for the great session. Yeah, it helps us a lot.
No problem.
Okay.
Lab and a So, we are, we help customers with announcing their workflows by helping them use custom chchPT in their communication platforms like slack So basically, yeah, it's, software as a service company.
And then we're tracking the users, week over week. So it's actually the opposite concern of what Lisa.
Asked before so we are tracking the numbers week over week and it's quite frustrating and overweight, sometimes not sometimes it's quite often.
It increases my anxiety. So are we doing good this week? Are we what did we wrong last week?
The kind of questions. So I'd like to get some advice from you about, his, focus.
And of course, the, the churn, it happens monthly because we yeah, get the month we support the monthly subscription.
So I'd like to understand. Is tracking week over week. The to check the growth and to apply our learnings is good or not.
Sure, sure. So nice to meet you. Let me try to answer the question and tell me if I did or we can kind of keep going.
So the 1st thing I would say is like, It's really easy to be anxious. And startups like again, 1min you're on top of the world, the next minute you're just like.
Your soul has been crushed. And it's really, really important to find ways to not get the more alive because again, like stamina is so big, it's so important.
And if you don't constantly sort of like. You know, I might be giving contrarian advice here.
You don't have to believe it, but I like the idea of, again, how do you slow down the lease? How do you move at a natural pace?
Because I think then like you, the best startups, they just, you know, like the dirty little secret is they just, they just found ways not to die long enough.
Like that there's a really good call, Graham, I say about that, right? Like everyone likes to talk about the sexy things they did.
That's really how it works. And so the 1st thing I would say is like, you wanna like try to mitigate anxiety in a startup.
Another thing I would do is I would, I would, to the, Lisa point is like, yeah, figure out like what is What is natural expected usage of your product?
Like, do you expect people to use it every day? You expect them to use it every week? Do you expect them to use it every month and you want to sort of build your analytics around whatever that regular cadence is.
The best way to figure that out is to talk to users. You know, and I've said this probably 10 times now talk to users like I just like I've never seen that not be a productive use of time.
Especially early on, right? So that's what I would do. To figure out what the regular cadence is and then, you know, snow depending on if you want to go raise more money, if you want to kind of bootstrap this thing beyond tech stars, I would, there's probably some incredible resources at Techstars.
I do a little bit of like S and B SAS, but I'm not like the, I'm not like the foremost expert by any means.
I would talk to users. I would figure out, let's say you get user feedback like people wanna use this weekly or people wanna use it monthly.
I would go talk to some of the SAS experts in the tech stars network and say like, Do you think we can build like a venture viable business off of this sort of cadence of usage?
And if the answer is no, then you're gonna have to like rethink the product and like figure out like how do you engineer.
You know, sort of a user experience that leads to more frequent usage, but maybe they'll be, you know, maybe you'll find people that are like, you know, on average people use this thing twice a month and, hey, snow, you should check out this other SAS company that's used to 3 times a month.
It's a really good cup for you guys and maybe that's okay, right? A lot of it comes back to like again.
The unit economics like can you make the unit economics of your SAS business work if people only use it twice a month, right?
Maybe answers yes, maybe the answer is no, but I would be like very hell bent on talking to users to figure out what is natural usage and then talking to just like the text, networks, incredible, right?
Like talk to South veterans and and just be brutally honest like this is what they told me this is how often they're going to use it today based on what we have is it good enough or is it not and you know talk to few people you trust and then kind of decide on where to go from there but Yeah, try to like above all like I know it wasn't really your question like try to mitigate anxiety.
I know it's really easier said than done, but yeah, you're gonna be grounded for a while here.
So, you wanna find ways to have a release and mitigate that for sure.
That totally makes sense. That helps a lot. Thank you.
No problem.
Perfect, Lisa and then we'll see if Ali we have time to get to you.
Yeah, we can do 2 more, no problem.
I'll turn real quick. Thanks so much, Mike. This is super helpful. I want to pick up on what Mark was talking about a little bit and then maybe in a different context where the funnel or wheel I know we all trying to be super scrappy right now but in your opinion is there ever a version where it makes sense to spend money on ads or do you try to do all organic?
For those 1st early customers when you said 50 i think to test What's your take on that? How to get those early, early people.
I think it's if you have a little if you have a little money to spend like I'm totally actually I'm like paid an organic agnostic if you're, even if your pre product market fit but like I would just be very clear and intentional around why you're doing paid if your pre product market fit, but like I would just be very clear and intentional around why you're doing paid.
You're doing paid to learn, right? Like have we built something to get, have we built something to confirm can we confirm that like our ideal customer file is X, right?
Or can we like actually drive revenue right now, right? Like you're doing paid to learn this really important thing.
That's gonna sort of dictate what you do next in the business. Like you're not, you're not doing paid to grow right now.
You're doing paid to learn. That's really what it comes down to. And I would be really clear around like, what's the most important thing that you need to learn right now to get to the next level?
And if you're gonna do paid acquisition to learn those things, I'm fine with it.
I just like you're not doing paid to grow. Maybe, you have a product Lisa and you know, maybe you're doing paid because you want to learn if you're at product market fit, right?
You want to bring some users in and you want to retain them, but still you're not. Doing it to grow.
You're doing it to figure out if you have like a product that paints, right? So either way, it's like if you pre product market fit, like I'm fine if you spend money if you have it, like maybe you want to get an idea of the unit economics like I just told you right like you're trying to figure out is once a year or once every other year enough to have like an LTV to cost to acquire.
To build like a scalable business, maybe you just want to go acquire some people to get a ballpark idea of what the CAC is, right, to give an idea of what the LTV needs to be.
Like to me, those are all really fine reasons to do paid because you're trying to learn like if you're onto something or not but you're just not doing it to grow if your pre product market fit.
Does that make sense?
Absolutely. Yeah, thank you.
Mike, me again. Super quick on, the scientific method that you suggest to run test and experiments.
Do you use any specific tool that helps track all these hypotheses and in outcomes and everything else.
To be consistent because sometimes you know you use Google Excel or whatever and that makes it difficult to track and compare it and be consistent.
So. Any device there.
Yeah, so a few and again, you know, I've talked to other people. I'm a little bit of a contrarian with tools.
I think most people use way too many tools and it actually like slows them down. So like when it comes to like, okay, the scientific method for like, you know, figuring out levers to grow.
Across marketing sales and product, you can get really far with a Google Doc and a spreadsheet.
If you prefer notion, great. If you want to have it be a little bit more like product and organized, I love Trello.
But I just like to keep things simple. In general, like I'm I would I worked on a company earlier this year for employee, incredible company, and they were like running the business off of Google Docs and sheets still.
So I just like There's a lot of like fanciness out there and I just, you know, it's just me.
I have a little bit of an aversion to it because it hasn't been helpful. I think that tools like get in the way more than they help.
So I keep it really simple and then like, you know, let's see you recording learnings at a Google Doc and you do it for 4 months and you get to this point where it's like, oh, this is like really.
Hard to keep track of like you know bookmarks in a Google Doc it's like it's unorganized and now it's 50 pages long like I would rather get to this place where it's like We're kind of bleeding on this process.
It's no longer working. Let's find a tool. Like I like to feel pain before I go out and find something fancy.
Because like the amazing thing about sheets and docks or even again if you like notion grade or something, something like Trello is like.
You could just get started so quickly, right? Like the tool doesn't. Like the tool like doesn't, you know, hinder starting.
So, that would be my, sort of sort of hot take on cool tools.
Thank you.
Cool, I think, Antonio's coming up and I can do another question.
Hi, Mike. Thanks for your input. I'm Antonio co-founder of Aware Simpi companies, Ali, or our ring for mental well being.
So we are pre products and we're thinking of a star growth journey with the funding. So what are your thoughts at our crop funding as a means to boost the initial growth?
Yeah, I mean, I think they're I don't know much about them, but if you guys do some googling or even like chat GPT around like, you know, this is what our product does, like who are the most successful, you know, I would just probably chat GPT it like, say this is what our product does, like what are the most successful Kickstarter companies who've
done this or I don't know where other people are doing crowdfunding these days. And then, you know, once you get a list of companies, I would be asking like what's like the what's like the crowdfunding checklist, right?
Like the playbook to run. But it's, a good way to like, you know, validate that you're onto something for sure.
Without diluting the business. I know some people run into problems where it's like a kind of blows up and then like they haven't actually like figured out the logistics and the manufacturing of it and it kind of becomes a nightmare.
But I would just like be researching all of that stuff. To make sure you've kind of covered your basis.
But again, we're going back to the device. But again, we're going back to that advice of like study the companies.
But again, we're going back to that device. But again, we're going back to that advice of like study the companies who've done it.
And if you think it' Yeah, maybe it's worth the shot.
Awesome. I have one more thing for you guys. If you want Shamus plug, I posted about startup 6 days a week on LinkedIn.
I don't use Twitter. So if you want to just like hear. I basically just try to write stuff that I wish someone told me 5 to 10 years ago.
So no pressure. I'll just come me on LinkedIn. And then I also have this newsletter called the Scale MBA. It's just meanwater.
Dot studio slash scale NDA. I just started it this year, but I have about 1,900.
Founders and VCs and early stage employees who read it so it's free no pressure but it's 2 parts basically I do like a 30 day crash course and growth so you get like 13 or 14 emails in 30 days and then after that every 10 days I do an interview with someone really cool, interesting in startups, people who sold startups for 500 million dollars other people who are like fastest growing startups in
the country like I said really cool metrics like 1 million bucks per employee people who care about culture. Yeah, so if you want to check it out after the 30 days of running the gauntlet on like the gross sprint, I send those every 10 days.
So no pressure. But it's just mean water dots do. I send those every 10 days.
So no pressure, but it's just mean water dots do a slash, Kale, and DA.
And then, you can find me on LinkedIn too
That's really cool, Mike. I haven't seen that before. You're a
Yeah, yeah, I yeah, it's like I've gotten good feedback so so far so it's a little bit of a unique like 2 part process.
The interviews are They're a lot of work, so I'm thinking about them about 10 of them.
I'm thinking about if I need to like maybe. Kinda pivoted but people really like them and I've got to meet some pretty cool people so and they've definitely like taught me a lot about startups as well so
Yeah.
Yeah, every 10 days, that's impressive. Wow. And then is your email, mike@moonwater.studio.
People are training.
Yep, yep, and then. Yup. And then my other company, you don't need to worry about it, but, yeah, we do more tactical gross stuff.
I have a partner for that, but I'll be it startup advisory and, Fractional operating I do with startups just mean water dot studio so and then like headmoon water dot studio is my email
Thank you for having me. Shoot me know at any time and yeah, keep me posted on progress.
Okay, well you guys can. Yeah.
So.
Amazing. I'm sure many will reach out. Thank you so much, Mike. This was awesome.
Thanks for your time. We'll be in touch.
Okay, we'll lay out. I'll shoot you over there. I gotta run right now, but I'll send you over the DAC to share out.
So.
Oh yeah, that'd be great. Thank you. Okay. Thank you much.
HiThanks